ABBY: Previously on Dance Moms...
These mothers are calling
my daughter a cheater.
Did you cheat for my daughter?
ABBY: Absolutely not.
Paige, put the pink on.
Oh, the pink is too big.
Paige, she doesn't matter.
God forbid you would see Paige
stand down just a little bit.
ABBY: If I was competing,
I'd have a headset on and I'd be
doing that dance in my head.
ANNOUNCER: Mackenzie, "Daisy Chains."
(cheering)
ABBY: Second is not good enough.
Do you understand that?
Save yourself the aggravation.
Save me the time.
Get it?
Coming up on Dance Moms...
This weekend is my first dance.
ABBY: Everyone's replaceable.
DANCE MOM: Oh, here comes Peyton again.
I don't care if you don't like.
I don't like you, either.
ABBY: I'm trying to do something
that I've never done before,
two titles in two hours,
and it's our secret.
I don't know why they're all so confused.
It's the biggest competition
in the United States.
Mackenzie is a beat behind.
I don't know what
I'm going to do with her.
Our dance teacher sets
these kids up to fail.
I'm ready to go. I'm done. I'm done.
Don't let the door hit you on the way out.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls
living on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Girls, let's go.
Come on. Come on. Come on.
Hustle up.
You should all run in here,
wanting to be first.
All right, so Energy Dance
in Waterford, Michigan.
Again, you were second.
(upbeat music playing)
Any other teacher
would probably think, overall,
high score, second place was wonderful.
KELLY: I think it was a gift from God
getting second place with that number.
And now the pyramid.
On the bottom,
Paige and Brooke.
Once again, you're still on probation.
I'm just saying they need
to give my kids more time.
Oh, I agree.
I am not letting my daughter
go on that stage.
I'm pulling their solos.
ABBY: You never came to me
and said, hey, can I enter my solo?
I thought they would come to me
and say, please, let us do our solos.
Could you ask the lady
if you can write them in?
Nope, never happened.
They don't want to do the work to win,
but they don't want to lose, either.
So what do they do? They bail.
Brooke, you should want to do that
acrobatic routine. It was beautiful.
KELLY: I have learned that if you
ask Abby for something,
she does the total opposite.
So why would my kids go up to her
and ask her for a solo?
Next, Nia.
Nia, you did a great job on your solo.
You made the top 10.
But pay attention to the technique.
Apply your corrections.
You don't always do that.
Next, we have
Chloe.
Chloe, great job in the duet.
Came out. Your back leg
was up on the arabesque.
You fixed your problems.
You had a good weekend.
Next on the pyramid, Maddie.
Maddie, you had an outstanding solo.
You did a beautiful job on the duet.
On top of the pyramid
this week is Mackenzie.
She won the overall high score
and was crowned Petite Miss Energy Dance.
ANNOUNCER: Mackenzie, "Daisy Chains."
(cheering)
MACKENZIE: I'm at the top of the pyramid.
I love being at the top of the pyramid.
Let's give her a round of applause.
(applause)
MELISSA: Mackenzie typically
is not on the top of the pyramid.
She's usually down in the bottom row.
So I'm really excited she has
the opportunity this week.
ABBY: This week we will be
attending Star Power
in Woodbridge, Virginia.
This is the largest dance competition
in the United States.
CHRISTI: It's the 25th
anniversary of Star Power
and this is their biggest
competition in the country,
and so it has the most acts
and the most pressure.
I'm excited about the group dance.
I've been preparing it for weeks.
Mackenzie, you proved
that you're not a little baby anymore.
You must be advanced enough
to be in the group dance.
I'm not watering down
the choreography.
You'll be expected to do
what everyone else does.
Maddie, you will be doing a routine
called "Looking for a Place like Home."
It's a little spin
on there's no place like home,
a modern day version.
We're going to wear
powder blue and white.
We're going to click our heels,
pay a little homage to Dorothy.
However, it's modern. It's now.
Chloe, you will also be doing a solo.
Your solo is entitled
"What Goes Around, Comes Around."
If Abby truly believes that,
she better look out,
because fate's going to run her over
with a Mack truck.
Yes, Brooke?
This weekend
is my first formal school dance
and I was wondering
if I would be able to go to it.
ABBY: I think if I was in your position,
I would probably make
a different decision.
However, if you have decided
that this is something
you want to do,
far be it for me to keep you from it.
If I demanded that Brooke go
to the competition this week,
I would have had brooding Brooke
on my hands,
a miserable, rotten,
disrespectful teenager.
You will not be
in the group number this week.
You will not be joining us on the trip.
-Thank you.
-Everyone's replaceable.
Moms, you are dismissed.
Thank you very much.
Girls, spread apart.
We're going to warm up.
See ya.
Let me see what this looks like.
Step out on your right
and switch hands.
Lunge.
The group number four this week
is called "The Huntress."
It's an inspiration from that movie
"The Hunger Games,"
and it's about children
telling each other to survive.
You know,
it's survival of the fittest.
Girls, obviously,
I'm going to replace Brooke.
I don't need Brooke there.
She's a great little acrobat,
but as far as a group goes,
I need a leader,
so I get to bring in a new dancer.
CHRISTI: Why do we need
to replace Brooke?
Because there's five people
in the dance already
and you only need four
to be a small group.
ABBY: Maddie,
I want you to go to Peyton.
Do not make a big deal out of it.
Just go and top her
on the shoulder and say, come with me.
Okay.
CHRISTI: I don't understand
why we need another person.
We don't.
KELLY: Abby just wants
to make this statement,
that everybody is replaceable.
Oh, here comes Peyton again.
ABBY:
Brooke is going away this weekend,
so I'm looking to replace her.
I can't imagine that she would go back
and invite her again
to the group
when it didn't work the first time.
ABBY: Peyton, we all know
everyone is replaceable.
You were not the right replacement
for this group.
You cannot be upset.
She's too old.
Because when you put older people in,
it drives up the age group.
We do fine where we are.
KELLY: I think all the moms
were concerned
about Peyton being in the group.
There has been rumors
going around the studio
that she's bullying everybody.
She pushed Paige
a couple weeks ago
and knocked her down
and thought nothing of it.
Yup.
She just went up to her
and pushed her on both shoulders
and knocked her down.
CHRISTI: Well, you know
what they say,
-apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
-Yeah.
Just think, we have to put up
with Leslie all weekend.
Wha.
CHRISTI: First day of rehearsal,
we're sitting upstairs watching,
and I'm thinking,
there's no Leslie today.
And this is just the calm
before the storm so I better enjoy it.
ABBY: Peyton is going
to be the huntress.
You all will be dinner.
(laughter)
Peyton, cast as the huntress,
will now hunt the other dancers,
if you will.
You have your bow
and you're aiming in here.
And get me in a deeply pli.
There you go.
She is going to go
after each one of these children.
Five, six, seven.
KELLY: Peyton comes in...
-And she's the star.
-...and she's the star of the dance.
It's not
that she's the star of the dance
because she's the best one in the group,
she's the star of the dance
because she doesn't fit in.
Five, six, seven, and slow and hold.
Slow and hold.
We only have four days
to perfect a complicated number
with a member of the group
who doesn't dance
with this group every week.
It's a challenge.
Four days today,
we're doing this number
at the very largest competition
in the whole United States.
Four days.
Am I crazy?
(upbeat music playing)
-What can I help you with?
-Hello.
We are looking for a dress
for her eighth grade farewell.
I want Brooke to go
to her eighth grade farewell dance
because I want Brooke
to be a normal kid.
Mm-mm.
No?
-God.
-Mm-mm.
Oh, Brooke, you're so picky.
CHRISTI: Kelly's asked me to go
dress shopping with her and Brooke.
You want to try this one?
Whoo.
I like it when we get to do
fun things with our girls,
and it's not very often
that that happens.
-All right, Brooke, fashion show. Go.
-All right, go ahead.
-It's too big for me.
-CHRISTI: Ooh.
Oh, well, it's pretty
but it may be a little big.
I think the color's beautiful
with your dark hair.
It's not my favorite.
CHRISTI: Oh, I love that dress.
Look how beautiful.
The dress is gorgeous.
That's pretty.
It looks like a costume.
KELLY: You like that one?
I like this one.
Is she crying?
It's going to be hard.
I don't want her to go without me.
This is her first big event
and I'm going to miss it
because of a dance competition.
You're getting too big.
(quirky music playing)
(quirky music continuing)
LESLIE: I'm happy to be back,
and Payton is really happy to be back.
I'll deal with these dance moms
and take whatever they dish out,
as long as Payton
gets this opportunity
to dance with this group.
There she is.
Let's go tell her the bad news.
ABBY: Hey, hey.
How are you?
We're good.
What's that?
LESLIE: Sad news.
Should be okay
in a couple of days.
The first day we show up
at the studio
when we're ready to start
rehearsing for this number,
I am really leery to tell Abby
that Payton hurt her finger
the night before
during rehearsals.
Leslie, you're thinking
about your kid.
I'm thinking about that medal
digging into every little girl's side
as she lifts them up.
-I brought more tape.
-What happened?
I went to jump to the floor
and when I put my hand down,
instead of putting it flat,
I went like this.
Well, I've had lots
of kids break a finger.
It's just a big deal
that you have to work
on grabbing them around the waist
and you're grabbing them
with a piece of metal.
I mean, she's going
to have to suck it up.
If she has to take it off,
she'll take it off.
Go get ready.
Get warmed up.
(upbeat music playing)
LESLIE: Melissa, Maddie seems happy
that Payton's in the group.
Chloe's catching up with Payton.
Look at her.
She's really getting tall.
CHRISTI: It's not that Payton
is exorbitantly tall for her age,
it's just that she's dancer
with kids four years younger than her.
Abby has a tendency
to typecast people.
Last time Payton was the bully.
This time she's hunting children.
Do you think
she was a good choice
to come in on this dance?
Melissa said last night
that she's been bullying Maddie a lot.
How is she bullying her?
She kept telling her,
you're doing that wrong.
You're doing that wrong.
Move on, you're in my way.
You told Christi and not me?
I didn't want you to yell at her.
You go and tell other people
before you tell me?
(tense music playing)
How is she bullying her?
She kept telling her,
you're doing that wrong.
You're doing that wrong.
Move on, you're in my way.
-Move it.
-Wait, that's bullying and being mean?
Melissa says that Payton
was bullying her daughter,
but really just can't give me
specific examples of what she did.
It's all while lies.
Women are brutal liars.
Telling somebody
that they're not doing it right
is not bullying them.
Tell me what the bullying, bullying--
if you know what the word means.
-What?
-That's an imbalance of power.
So if you're using your power
in a way that's unbalanced,
like a child
might be six inches taller,
being more aggressive,
even verbally,
that would be
considered bullying.
And she said,
please don't tell Leslie
because she's going to
really yell at Payton
and Payton's going to get in trouble.
Well, she should get in trouble.
I don't want to get involved.
I don't want to--
That's your answer
for everything, isn't it?
-What is?
-LESLIE: Guess what?
You got yourself involved
when you told somebody else something.
-I'm so sick of (indistinct)
-MELISSA: She's a great girl.
Up here trying to belittle
and put my daughter down,
because your daughter's no angel.
She's a good girl.
Payton is a good girl.
You're damn right,
as good a girl as your daughter.
-Listen--
-Shut your face.
Don't talk about my daughter.
I don't care if you don't like me.
I don't care
if you don't like me, either.
I don't like you.
Well, you're not my friend.
You're no one's friend up here.
No one wants you here, Leslie.
Oh, guess what?
I'm here.
-Guess what?
-Oh, we know.
And the truth hurts
and you can't handle it.
Please.
I said what I needed to say.
I was at peace.
I can't help it if you can't stop
your mouth from running.
ABBY: Turn. Turn.
(indistinct) Straddle.
Leap. Down. Hit.
I was feeling very confident
about the routine.
Then the next day,
they come in and they look ridiculous,
like we didn't even work
on anything.
I'm like, girls, get it together.
This is the biggest
competition in the country.
Run.
Quit running like a little kid.
You're a warrior.
Run.
You're fighting for your country.
Move upstage.
That's what I keep telling you.
MELISSA: I look down and Mackenzie
has that look on her face
of overwhelming.
She's overwhelmed
with this dance.
ABBY: You're going to write
a whole report
between one foot and two feet.
Saute and sissonne.
They're two different things.
This is definitely a big girl dance.
Mackenzie is a beat behind.
I don't know
what I'm going to do with her.
So if she can get out on that stage
and do a solo and win a title,
she can do the routine.
Gee, I don't know
why they're all so confused.
It's the biggest competition
in the United States.
Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪ I'm ready for my destination ♪
MADDIE: This week I'm doing solo
called "Looking for a Place Called Home."
And it's lyrical
and I'm really excited
because I get to play Dorothy.
And it's about me
trying to find my way home,
and I'm really
excited to dance it.
Melissa, are you worried
about Maddie going up
against 10 and 11-year-olds?
No, I think it's good.
I mean, I think it's good
that they get a challenge.
Abby likes to put a lot
of pressure on the girls,
and she'll tell Maddie,
you're nine but you have
to dance like a 12-year-old.
When you're three years
older than somebody,
you have a lot more technique
and a lot more experience,
a lot more hours dancing,
so it's going to be tough.
SINGER: ♪ In that life
I'm not afraid to fly... ♪
ABBY: Every dance that Maddie
does is a great dance.
She just portrays characters very well.
So when I give her
a character to portray,
it helps her get into the story.
It helps her find her emotion.
And she's going
to use it on stage,
and that's very important
when you're doing a lyric
or a contemporary routine.
Remember, this is Star Power.
It's the largest competition
in the United States.
They have three different levels.
You are in the highest,
most advanced level.
Today and tomorrow
and you're there,
and there's other kids that have
been working on these routines
since September maybe.
You need to be flawless. Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
(Kaci Brown's "Back In Time" playing)
CHLOE: My solo this week is called
"What Comes Around,"
and it's a contemporary
lyrical piece and I really like it.
Now, I want to remind you,
this is Star Power.
It's their 25th anniversary.
You and Maddie both
are in the most advanced division.
Chloe's is called
"What Goes Around"
because I really do think
Chloe needs to learn that lesson,
what goes around
comes around.
And when her mother's evil
and disrespectful to people,
it's going to come around.
Chloe, you have two days
to get the face happening.
I'm seeing a little flirting,
but I'm not seeing the evil.
I'm going to step on whoever
I can to get ahead.
I don't see that.
CHRISTI: I'm watching Chloe begin
to learn her choreography for her solo,
and there's a lot
of walking around
and posing and not a lot of dancing.
And of course, I'm worried
because I've been here before
and I know whatever dance
Maddie's going to do
is going to be spectacular.
Sit.
Pick them up. Pick them up.
Yeah.
(foreboding music playing)
ABBY: And up.
Arch your body there.
MELISSA:
Abby calls Maddie in and says,
Maddie, I want you to come in
and rehearse this morning.
I have no idea why.
ABBY: Stomach tight.
Use your abs.
Double PK. Push PK.
MELISSA: Maddie and I
show up at rehearsal
and no one else is there.
Turn it out.
I'm always looking
for more opportunities for Maddie.
Star Power is so big
that they've split up
the competition.
One is at one venue,
the other one
is down the street
in a completely different
high school auditorium.
Okay, watch these arms.
(makes sound)
Make sure
you're using your arms.
So I started to think, hmm,
can I take somebody and enter them
in the other competition, too?
Lo and behold,
they said sure,
but you can't do the same number.
I'm trying to do something
that I've never done before.
Having a kid in two titles
in two hours,
take advantage
of every opportunity.
Maddie knows some old routines,
so I think maybe do
the "Cry" number.
SINGER: ♪And I ♪
♪ I don't want to do
anything but cry ♪
Now Melissa, you understand,
this is nobody's business but ours.
Right.
I don't want any other mother
down my throat about,
how come you get to go
and how come not
everybody else gets to go?
Our secret.
I am banking on this kid
knowing that routine.
Maddie, this is your year.
This is your moment to shine.
You're going to win everything.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Come on, girls, let's go.
We have a lot of work to do.
Let's start on the group routine.
(Lili Roquelin's
"Keep This For You" playing)
SINGER: ♪ I'm skipping stones
on a river ♪
♪ You hear a sound ♪
I think the group dance
has potential
to be either very good
or very sloppy.
The choreography
is very complicated
and they've only
practiced for two days.
I felt pretty good when I left
last night about this number.
Now I don't.
Let's go from the top
of the arabesque.
Five, six, seven, go.
Uh-uh, uh-uh.
Plié.
Use your heel.
Glide through fourth position.
Nia always gets through
the sloppy phase.
She gets really excited
about things at the beginning
and works real hard.
Then she gets a little bored
and she gets sloppy.
Mackenzie, I just told you
to look over your shoulder on that.
Mackenzie, I told you, after this,
you need to look all the way
and you're not.
That's number one.
Number two, you're a beat
behind the girls the whole time.
You know, I'm tough on that kid.
I think too many people
treat her like a baby
and that's not
doing her any good.
One, two.
No, stop.
She didn't get on one knee.
Step, step, boom.
It's big.
Your legs are straight.
You're like a warrior.
You're fighting.
PAYTON: I really need to do well
in this group number this week
because I want
a permanent spot on this team.
This is a great opportunity
and the pressure is on.
Everything that you
would think of in your head
would have to do with surviving.
How can I get out of here?
How can I eat?
How can I stay alive?
All those things
are in your mind,
and I'm not seeing any of that.
I'm not seeing that frantic.
Remember,
25th anniversary of Star Power.
So many people,
there's two competitions.
You have to be
so captivating in your faces
that you capture those judges.
Go get a drink.
(upbeat music playing)
When I tried to lift her up
like, because she
didn't do anything.
Well, are you going
to be okay on Saturday?
Payton, you can't--
-Well, I was gonna be.
-You have to be okay on Saturday.
Payton's complaining
about the finger after this dance,
and I think it's important for kids
to be tough in the dance world.
So she just needs to suck it up
and get through the dance.
You have a lot of lifting to do.
You should have
been more careful.
It wasn't my fault,
she didn't lift herself.
I told you to wrap it
better than that, too.
I am nervous that Abby
would cut Payton from this dance.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Girls, get your stuff.
As the bus pulls
into the parking lot,
I'm going, oh my goodness.
What did we get ourselves into?
Come on, girls, here we go.
Game faces.
Star Power,
this is a huge competition.
It's the largest competition
in the United States.
Lots of amazing dancers.
And it's their 25th anniversary,
so I know we're going to have
a fight on our hands.
It's going to be a tough competition,
just because of the numbers
of people that are here.
It's crazy.
The group is first, I believe. Yes?
(mellow music playing)
Girls, remember
what character you're playing
when you step out there.
You're warriors.
You're survivors.
So Payton, how's the finger?
It's okay.
Okay?
Can I hear a good?
LESLIE: No, it's not good.
It's not okay.
But it's her finger.
It's not her knee
or her ankle or her thigh.
She's got three lifting parts.
I just hope she doesn't
stop dancing or holds back
because she's afraid
of her finger getting hurt.
It's going to hurt.
I'm not going to lie to you,
it's going to hurt.
For two minutes and 30 seconds,
it's going to be very painful.
And then you stick it in ice,
get the splint back on,
and continue to heal.
LESLIE: There's no way
she can dance with it.
-The splint? No.
-Yes.
CHRISTI: Uh, hello?
Haven't you been here before?
Of course not.
Maybe if you sprayed a cover.
It's a finger.
So she's going to look bad
in her wedding pictures.
Oh, well.
That's not going
to hurt her dancing.
Didn't some guy
survive in some cliff
and he ate his arm and he's fine?
There's your answer.
Suck it up.
KELLY: I got a picture from Brooke.
MOMS: Oh, I want to see.
MOM: Aw.
LESLIE: Oh, she's beautiful.
She does.
Gorgeous.
Oh, she looks like a big girl.
KELLY: I'm very happy with my decision
to send Brooke to the school dance
instead of coming
to the competition.
I think that, you know,
coming all this way
to do a two-minute number,
she'll do another competition
next weekend.
You can't ever do
your eighth grade farewell again.
I need to save the text
that says I miss you.
Now she's going to go
and kiss somebody
and she won't miss you.
(upbeat music playing)
Now, listen to me.
Do not walk back
in this dressing room
and repeat what you did the last time,
do you understand?
Do not come back
to this dressing room
and think that you were fabulous
and everybody else screwed up.
I want to talk to Payton
about the last time
she joined this team
and how her mouth
got her into trouble
and everybody hated her.
I thought that I was better
than most of the people.
ABBY: You thought you were better
than most of the people in this group?
Oh, that's cocky.
You can be a leader
and you can be a role model,
but don't be cocky.
When you set foot
in this dressing room,
100% decorum,
manners, etiquette.
You're a natural
born leader, yes?
-Yes.
-But I'm the leader, understood?
Yes.
ABBY: One, two, three, four.
Star Power is the biggest
competition in the country.
Winning there means a lot,
a lot to me
and a lot
to the dance community.
The girls are running the number.
Chloe's left leg
isn't high enough in the lift.
Paige's knees are bent.
Nia's feet are sloppy.
Ugh!
Nia, where does the head go
on the push away?
It's getting old.
It's getting boring.
It's getting monotonous.
Are we ready?
All right, we're on the move.
We got to go, go, go, go, go.
Let's go.
Game faces, girls.
And when I say game faces,
I really mean it this time.
It is a game out there.
(upbeat music playing)
I hope I can prove to Abby
that I can dance with the big girls.
My finger hurts a lot,
but I need to dance with the pain
and I need to do my best.
I need to show Abby
that I'm a great leader
and a good team player.
ANNOUNCER: All right,
ladies and gentlemen,
our next routine.
This is "The Huntress,"
entry number 169.
(cheering and applause)
(Lili Roquelin's
"Keep This For You" playing)
SINGER:
♪ I'm skipping stones on a river ♪
♪ From the other side ♪
HOLLY: Abby does weird well.
The weirder, the better.
And I think "The Huntress"
is one more chalk on her board.
SINGER: ♪ I can see you talk ♪
♪ But I can't hear a word ♪
♪ You're too far from the shore ♪
LESLIE: I can see Payton cringing
a little bit with her hurt finger.
I'm hoping that she'll be able
to suck it up
and get the job done so these mothers
have nothing to say negative about her.
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: MacKenzie misses
getting on Payton's back.
My first thought is like,
oh, Abby's going to freak on her.
♪ Shambles in your mind ♪
♪ Keep this for you ♪
♪ And let me climb up the hills ♪
♪ I won't do it for you ♪
(applause)
LESLIE: I would say they were good,
not great.
Payton did not nail her turns,
but you know what?
She's a great performer,
and I think people were very pleased
with her performance.
Oh.
I want to rip my finger off.
That was supposed to be
four turns, four turns.
Payton, you're 14 years old.
You should be doing eight turns.
(suspenseful music playing)
ANNOUNCER: The nine to eleven
power division small group top scores.
Here we go.
PAYTON: I could have done way better
in the group number.
My finger hurts a lot
and I missed some turns.
I hope Abby doesn't blame me
if the group number doesn't place.
10th place, entry number 211,
"Annie's Song."
Studio Blue Dancer.
(applause)
Third place, entry number 218,
"My Boyfriend's Back." Studio Blue.
(applause)
1/10 of a point
separates first and second place.
HOLLY: Well, it's like sitting
on pins and needles.
I'm like, oh,
it's only a tenth of a point.
I hope it's us. I hope we win first place.
Second place...
entry number 169, "The Huntress."
Abby Lee Dance Company.
(applause)
MELISSA: Abby hates being second.
She said second is the first to lose.
CHRISTI: I said that I would
rather you get 10th place
than lose by a tenth of a point, you know?
All together, the studio is what?
Abby Lee Dance Company.
(applause)
ABBY: I'm not being ungrateful,
but a tenth of a point?
Maybe that was one knee straighter.
Maybe that was one more turn.
We'll never know.
-CHRISTI: Oh, there's the girls.
-ABBY: Hey, girls.
-Good job, girls.
-Hi, good job.
-HOLLY: Hey, I don't see smiles.
-Nice work.
It doesn't matter.
Good job.
-Good job. You guys did fabulous.
-You did great.
ABBY: Second.
A tenth of a point.
CHRISTI: Our girls only lost
by a tenth of a point.
Most normal people would think
that would be something to be celebrated,
but in Abby's mind, that's going to be
like the biggest devastation of the world.
How does everyone feel they did?
I looked right in Payton's face
and I said, how do you think
you did from last year in St. Louis?
I wanted to see if that kid
had grown, matured,
and was ready to be part of this team.
Good.
How do you think we did?
And she did.
She said, how do you think we did?
PAYTON: I wasn't cocky
about my performance,
and I showed Abby that I could be humble
and a great team leader.
ABBY: Do you want me to be nice and sweet
and I can kiss all of you and tell you you
were wonderful or do you want the truth?
-The truth.
-ABBY: The truth?
I just would like for you to work
and to want to be first.
There's only one winner.
(applause)
There you go.
Press those heels down in the foot.
Boom.
Wicked, step on the people.
The girls look gorgeous.
They're excited.
I could tell Chloe is on the top
of the moon with this costume.
Can I put her barrette in
while you're talking to her?
ABBY: I run her routine first,
then I run Maddie's.
The girls seem prepared.
They seem like they know
what they're doing.
I think they're both going to get through
these numbers.
It's nine to eleven.
You're nine.
Come on, Chloe, you ready?
Remember, it's nine to eleven.
You're just 10.
So go out there
and find all the 11-year-olds
and let's lock them in the bathroom.
Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Judges, up next, we're
going to jump down to entry number 258.
I can't go on right now.
I think I just got nervous
before I went on stage
because I think I felt like
I didn't have enough practice
and I learned it
in a short amount of time.
ANNOUNCER: Entry 258.
We're going to kick off our solo
contemporary, age nine to 11 category.
CHLOE: If I forget it,
I'll just make something up
and see what happens.
ANNOUNCER: Competing
for the title of Junior Miss,
please welcome Chloe to the stage.
(applause)
ANNPOUNCER: Judges, up next,
we’re gonna jump down...
CHLOE: Before I went on stage for my solo,
I got a little bit nervous.
And I thought I started to forget it,
but I didn't.
I just kind of freaked myself out.
ANNOUNCER: Competing for the title
of Junior Miss….
please welcome Chloe to the stage
with "What Goes Around."
Entry number 258.
(applause)
(Kaci Brown's "Back In Time" playing)
♪ As a result of all the little things ♪
♪ You claim to do ♪
♪ I bite my pride
and sincerely thank you ♪
♪ For what, I cannot say ♪
♪ Will always haunt my mind ♪
♪ What goes around ♪
♪ Eventually comes back in time ♪
CHRISTI: I'm watching Chloe's solo
and I think she looks amazing.
Her costume is gorgeous
and she's dancing beautifully,
but her choreography is subpar.
♪ Will always haunt my mind ♪
♪ What goes around ♪
♪ Eventually comes back in time ♪
♪ Comes around ♪
(applause)
ABBY: Chloe could have had
a little bit more fluidity.
She's always abrupt and sharp.
But otherwise,
it was a very clean routine.
She learned it in two days.
She remembered it.
Not much more you could ask for.
Let's do it.
ANNOUNCER: We're back in our solo
contemporary division, age nine to eleven.
MADDIE: I'm kind of nervous
for my first solo
because Miss Abby expects me
to win a crown for this solo
and it's a lot of pressure.
(cheering)
ANNOUNCER: Competing for the title
of Junior Miss,
help me welcome Maddie.
(applause)
(Grinehouse and Mica Javier's
"3000 light years" playing)
♪ Seems like I'm so far ♪
♪ Burning cold like a star ♪
♪ I gotta find my sanity ♪
♪ I hit rock bottom thanks to gravity ♪
♪ Will it ever get better? ♪
♪ Am I stuck here forever? ♪
♪ Living under thunderstorms ♪
♪ Searching for a place called home ♪
♪ I've gotta go and I cannot wait, ay ♪
♪ I'm looking for a place called home ♪
♪ Don't know how but I'll find a way, ay ♪
MELISSA: This is the first time
I've watched the whole thing.
Her turns are just so beautiful
and her emotion is just right on.
♪ My energy is sending distress calls ♪
♪ Are we really all? ♪
♪ Got to get 3,000 light years away ♪
♪ I've gotta find my sanity ♪
♪ I hit rock bottom thanks to gravity ♪
(applause)
ABBY: I'm proud.
Yay! Go, Maddie.
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: Maddie's solo was beautiful.
She did the best that she could do.
We'll just have to see what happens.
ANNOUNCER:
All right, it's Junior Miss time.
In our title competition,
the judges are looking
for a well-rounded, outstanding performer,
where they weigh everything equally
and they give one score.
And tonight, our second runner up
for the title of Junior Miss is...
Chloe for "What Goes Around."
CHRISTI: Chloe got second runner up
for Junior Miss Star Power.
And I think considering
how bad her choreography was,
that says a lot about her
technique as a talent.
Joining us now
in the first runner up position is
Ashley Anne for "Summertime."
(applause)
Ladies and gentlemen,
your power division nine to 11 soloist,
tonight's champion will be...
Maddie, "Looking for a Place Called Home."
(cheering)
Congratulations.
MADDIE: I am so excited that
I won Junior Miss Star Power and a crown,
and I hope I can win another one.
The studio is?
Abby Lee Dance Company.
ABBY: So Maddie is Junior Miss Star Power
at their 25th anniversary,
during the biggest competition
in the United States,
in an age division
where she's on the youngest side.
Our top scoring nine to 11
soloists, great job.
That does it for us tonight.
CHRISTI: Maddie's choreography
and Chloe's choreography
were not even in the same stratosphere.
I thought Chloe's solo was very technical.
No, it wasn't.
It had one set of turns at the end.
You're just a poor loser.
She did fabulous.
She was amazing.
Her choreography didn't allow her to win.
I am getting so upset
because I know that there is no chance
that Chloe has to even come close
to beating Maddie.
ABBY: Outstanding.
Chloe, wonderful.
Maddie, I can't believe
you won that title.
But you know what?
You're only as good
as your last performance.
So Melissa, I'm taking her over
to the other competition
and she's going to do "Cry."
What?
ABBY: Maddie, I need you to get dressed
and I need to fix your hair.
All right, ready?
Come on, baby doll.
Now there's situation where
you should have spoke up and said,
why wouldn't Chloe be going?
Maddie, you understand
that you just won this whole thing?
You can win that whole thing.
I mean, no pressure.
KELLY: It's blatantly obvious
that she brought a costume for Maddie
and didn't bring one
for Chloe or Nia or Paige or Payton.
Because she guaranteed you
she practiced that solo this week.
Yeah.
I know Melissa knew that Maddie
was going to do two solos.
If Abby sprung
doing a solo on her like that
and she wasn't prepared,
Maddie would have been a nervous wreck,
but she was cool as a cucumber
and was prepared.
Maddie, you walk into the competition,
don't forget.
Game face on.
Nose in the air.
Get out there and do your best.
CHRISTI: Our dance teacher
set these kids up to fail.
She knew Maddie
was going to win that dance.
Your daughter was taught a solo.
She got a beautiful costume,
just like Maddie did.
You should know that
about being a dance mom at this point.
I'm ready to go. I'm done.
Good.
Don't let the door hit you on the way out.
Can't wait to have you back.
ABBY: This is good.
Let's go right in that door, Melissa.
MELISSA: Okay.
ABBY: Okay, go.
Go, go, go, go, go.
Maddie, don't wait for me. Run.
(upbeat music playing)
What's her number?
Am I competing?
MADDIE: I'm about to go on for "Cry"
and I'm very excited
that I get to do it again,
but also kind of nervous
because I really want to do my best
and try to win another crown.
Just got that award
about lighting up the stage.
That's what I need you to do, yes?
And if the dance is "Cry,"
every one of those judges
should be in tears.
-Got it?
-Okay.
Yes? Let's do it, babe.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome, "Cry," 326.
♪ Well, I, I guess it's been a while ♪
♪ Since I've seen the sunshine ♪
♪ Since I have smiled ♪
MELISSA: I'm actually backstage
watching Maddie do her solo
because there wasn't any time
for us to sit down.
Maddie looks beautiful
out there doing her solo.
I was really proud of her,
but I don't know what the other
competition is like here.
♪ And I ♪
♪ I don't want to do anything but cry ♪
(applause)
Hug me.
I love you.
ABBY: That child worked so hard.
She puts 100% in every class she takes.
She deserves to hold her head high.
(cheering)
ABBY: So here comes the awards.
Can we do it, two for two? I don't know.
We have a second runner up
going to entry number 343,
Megan Prow with "Janet."
(applause)
And first runner up
for Junior Miss Star Power
is going to enter number 345,
Heather Spears with "River Deep."
(applause)
And your Junior Miss Star Power
here at Woodbridge 2012 will be...
entry number 326, Maddie with "Cry."
(cheering)
Maddie was the Junior Miss Star Power
at the second competition that day.
Within two hours,
that child won two titles
at two different competitions.
And what studio do you represent?
Abby Lee Dance Company.
Congratulations.
Who does that?
There she is.
(cheering)
I have to tell you,
I thought this was very--this is sneaky.
This was sneaky right here.
Whoo-hoo.
Yes. Give me a kiss.
Maddie had a solo.
They just so happened
to have a costume in their bag.
Just so happened Maddie
had a three-hour private that week.
This is the (bleep) that happens.
Two titles in one day.
See? It's worth it sometimes, isn't it?
I'm hanging. I'm hanging. I'm hanging.
Yes, good girl.
We're bitter about the way
the deck is constantly stacked.
That's what you're missing, Leslie.
You don't live it so you don't know it.